---
layout: post
title: "RL: Generalized Policy Iteration: Dynamic Programming vs Monte Carlo"
date: 2022-10-05 05:32:20 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: gppi.png # Add image post (optional)
---

The Major two dynamic programming approach to find an optimal policy given full knowledge of the MDP are Policy Iteration and Value Iteration. 
<br>
<strong>Policy Iteration:</strong> Start with an initial policy. Then apply Bellman equation repeatedly to determine state-values. From the state-values, greedily choose the action.
<hr>
<strong> POLICY ITERATION </strong>
<hr>
<strong>repeat until</strong> policy is stable:      
$\quad$ <strong>repeat until</strong> convergence:     
$\quad\quad$ <strong>for</strong> $s \in S$ <strong>do</strong>:      
$\quad\quad\quad v(s) = \sum_{r, s'} (r + \gamma v(s'))P(r,s'|s, \pi(s))$      
$\quad$ <strong>for</strong> $s \in S$ <strong>do</strong>:      
$\quad\quad \pi(s) = \arg \max_{a} \sum_{r, s'} (r + \gamma v(s'))P(r,s'|s, a)$
<br>
<br>
<strong>Value Iteration:</strong> Value iteration updates the state value of state $s$ from the optimal arm $a$. This way, the state values converge to optimal values. And the resulting policy too is optimal.
<hr>
<strong> VALUE ITERATION </strong>
<hr>
<strong>repeat until</strong> policy is stable:      
$\quad$ <strong>repeat until</strong> convergence:     
$\quad\quad$ <strong>for</strong> $s \in S$ <strong>do</strong>:      
$\quad\quad\quad v(s) = \max_{a} \sum_{r, s'} (r + \gamma v(s'))P(r,s'|s, a)$      
<strong>for</strong> $s \in S$ <strong>do</strong>:      
$\quad \pi(s) = \arg \max_{a} \sum_{r, s'} (r + \gamma v(s'))P(r,s'|s, a)$
<br>
<br>
<strong>Drawbacks of DP:</strong> There are several pitfalls of DP - 
<ul>
  <li> It requires full knowledge of the MDP.</li>
  <li> Since it bootstraps, the state-values could be very biased.</li>
  </ul>
 <br>
 <br>
<strong>Monte Carlo Methods:</strong> When we don't have all the state transition probabilities and the reward structure of the MDP, we can learn from experience. We can sample a lot of trajectories and from them we can estimate the state-values $v_{\pi}(s)$ and the action-values $q_{\pi}(s,a)$ given a policy. In the event when the policy isn't fixed, we can adjust our policy based on the current estimates of $v(s)$ and $q(s,a)$.     
<br>
<strong>Monte Carlo Prediction:</strong> We know that, given a trajectory, $G_{t} = R_{t} + \gamma R_{t+1} + \gamma^{2} R_{t+2} + \cdots + \gamma^{T} R_{t+T}$ which can be recurisvely expressed as $G_{t} = R_{t} + \gamma G_{t+1}$. So, we can get $G_{t}$ from $G_{t+1}$. This is how we can update the value of $G_{t}$. But it could also occur that a state is repeated multiple times in a trajectory. One thing to consider is whether we should update it's value at the very first occurrence in the trajectory of in every visit. Hence, we have two approaches to this Monte Carlo prediction.
<br>
<hr>
<strong> FIRST VISIT MONTE CARLO PREDICTION </strong>
<hr>
<strong>repeat until</strong> convergence:      
$\quad$ Generate an episode under $\pi$: $S_{0}, A_{0}, R_{0}, S_{1}, \cdots, S_{T-1}, A_{T-1}, R_{T-1}$        
$\quad t = T-1$        
$\quad$ <strong>while</strong> $t \geq 0$ <strong>do</strong>:      
$\quad\quad G = R_{t} + \gamma G$     
$\quad\quad$<strong>If</strong> $S_{t}$ is the first occurrence of this state:     
$\quad\quad V(S_{t}) =$ adjust$(V(S_{t}), G)$     
$\quad\quad t = t - 1$     
<br>
