---
layout: post
title: "Bayesian Bandits: Conjugate Priors"
date: 2022-08-23 13:32:20 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: bayes.jpg # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: The Amazing Thomas Bayes# Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [Holidays, Hawaii]
---

A policy that performs very well in a particular bandit may perform very poorly in another adversarially chosen bandit. In reality, the bandits are unknown. So, we need a policy that performs good in all bandits in average. If a policy that performs worse than another policy in at least one bandit and never performs better than the other policy in other bandits, then the first policy is said to be <strong>dominated</strong> by the second policy. A policy that isn't dominated by any other policy is called an <strong>admissible</strong> or <strong>pareto optimal</strong> policy. There may be lots of admissible policies. One of them is the <strong> Minimax Optimal Policy </strong> that minimizes the worst regret across all bandits. It belongs to the following set:
<center>$\arg \min_{\pi} \sup_{v \in \epsilon} R(\pi, v)$ </center> 
Where, $R(\pi, \epsilon)$ is the regret of policy $\pi$ in bandit $v$. 
But this policy may have a high regret on average. So, let's explicitly go for what we explicitly want. A policy that performs better on average than the others. The <strong>Bayesian optimal policy</strong>. When the environment $\epsilon$ is finite, it belongs to the following set:

<center>$\arg \min_{\pi} \sum_{v \in \epsilon} \mathbb{P}(v) R(\pi,v)$ </center>

<strong>Beta Distributions:</strong> Suppose, we tossed a coin 9 times. And the outcomes can be represented as a string E = "HTHHTHHHT". If the probability of getting a head up is $p = x$, then the probability of this particular event is $x^{6}(1-x)^{3}$. The maximum likelihood estimate for $x$ should be $\frac{1}{3}$. And the likelihood that $Pr(p = x | E) = \frac{Pr(E|p = x) Pr(p = x)}{Pr(E)} = \frac{Pr(E|p = x) Pr(p = x)}{\int_{0}^{1} Pr(E|p = x) Pr(p = x) dx}$.      
Initially, without any experiment, we can assume that, $Pr(p=x)$ is a uniform distribution for all values of $x$.    
So, $Pr(p = x | E)  = \frac{Pr(E|p = x)}{\int_{0}^{1} Pr(E|p = x)dx}$.   
It kind of makes sense, because the maximum likelihood estimate of $x$ will maximize the value of $Pr(p = x|E)$ which it should.    
Now, We know that, $Pr(E | p = x) = x^{6} (1-x)^{3}$ but, we can replace E = "HTHHTHHHT" with a larger event called $\bar E = \{a = 6, b = 3\}$ where $a$ is the number of heads and $b$ is the number of tails. In that case,     
$Pr(\bar E | p = x) = \binom{a+b}{a} x^{a} (1-x)^{b}$      
So, $Pr(p = x | \bar E)  = \frac{Pr(\bar E |p = x)}{\int_{0}^{1} Pr(\bar E|p = x)dx} = \frac{\binom{a+b}{a} x^{a} (1-x)^{b}}{\int_{0}^{1} \binom{a+b}{a} x^{a} (1-x)^{b}dx} = \frac{x^{a} (1-x)^{b}}{\int_{0}^{1} x^{a} (1-x)^{b}dx}$.    
So, $Pr(p = x | a = 6, b = 3) = \frac{x^{6} (1-x)^{3}}{\int_{0}^{1} x^{6} (1-x)^{3}dx}$.   
Or more generally, $Pr(x | a, b) = \frac{x^{a} (1-x)^{b}}{\int_{0}^{1} x^{a} (1-x)^{b}dx}$.   
$\int_{0}^{1} x^{\alpha} (1-x)^{\beta}dx$ is defined to be $B(\alpha + 1, \beta + 1)$.    
PDF of Beta Distribution: $f(x | \alpha, \beta) = \frac{x^{\alpha-1} (1-x)^{\beta-1}}{B(\alpha, \beta)}$ for all $0 \leq x \leq 1, \alpha > 0, \beta > 0$.           
Mean: $\mu = \frac{\alpha}{\alpha + \beta}$      
Variance: $\sigma^{2} = \frac{\alpha\beta}{(\alpha + \beta)^{2}(\alpha + \beta + 1)}$    

<strong>Conjugate Priors:</strong> Let's say, we are conducting two coin-toss experiments. In the first experiment we got $\alpha-1$ heads and $\beta-1$ tails. And now, we are conducting the second experiment and we got $\gamma$ heads and $\delta$ tails. We want to update the probabilities of getting heads. Let's call $E = (\gamma, \delta)$ the second experiment. We are interested in the following:    
<center>$Pr(p = x | E) = \frac{Pr(E|p = x) Pr(p = x)}{Pr(E)}$</center>
If $\bar E = (\alpha, \beta)$ was the first experiement, then $Pr(p = x) = Pr(p = x | \bar E)$. So, our posterior from the first experiment becomes the prior in the second experiment. So, $Pr(p = x) = \frac{x^{a} (1-x)^{b}}{B(\alpha, \beta)}$. And if we plug it in,    
<center>$Pr(p = x | E) = \frac{\binom{\gamma + \delta}{\gamma} x^{\gamma} (1-x)^{\delta} \frac{x^{\alpha-1} (1-x)^{\beta-1}}{B(\alpha, \beta)}}{\int_{0}^{1} \binom{\gamma + \delta}{\gamma} x^{\gamma} (1-x)^{\delta} \frac{x^{\alpha-1} (1-x)^{\beta-1}}{B(\alpha, \beta)}dx} = \frac{x^{\gamma + \alpha - 1} (1-x)^{\delta + \beta - 1}}{\int_{0}^{1} x^{\gamma + \alpha - 1} (1-x)^{\delta + \beta - 1}) dx} = \frac{x^{\gamma + \alpha - 1} (1-x)^{\delta + \beta - 1}}{B(\gamma+\alpha, \delta + \beta)}$ </center>  

Which is also a beta distribution. If the prior and posterior are of the same distribution family, then the prior is called a conjugate prior. 
  
